[Music]
check this out Titanic the story you
don't know the Titanic story is one that
will live on for ages
having inspired movies documentaries and
exhibitions you might think you know
everything there is to know about the
great unsinkable ship that was sent to a
watery grave by an iceberg but did you
know it had two sister ships or that
events leading up to and the day of its
maiden voyage actually sealed the ship's
fate if you are ready to learn some
amazing new facts about Titanic its
passengers and of course its tragic end
then keep on watching just don't forget
to click that subscribe button and ring
the bell
to turn on post notifications so that
you don't miss any of our daily uploads
RMS Titanic was built by a British
shipping company called White Star Line
they focused on building comfortable and
reliable ships however they found
themselves in heavy competition with a
North American based company called
Cunard which had built the most
sophisticated and luxurious ships at the
time the Mauretania and the Lusitania
the Mauretania set a speed record that
it held for 22 years and the Lusitania
was renowned for its luxurious interiors
White Star Line had their work cut out
for them if they wanted to beat their
rival so in order to crush the
competition the chief executive of White
Star Line Joseph Bruce Ismay
commissioned the creation of three
enormous ships the Olympic the Titanic
and the gigantic masses of workers
started building the Titanic at a
Belfast Ireland shipyard in March 1909
and managed to complete it three years
later RMS Titanic at 882 feet long and
as
as a 17-story building was the largest
movable human-made object of the time
people marveled at its creation and
100,000 people attended the unveiling
the ship was the height of luxury its
interior was inspired by the Ritz Hotel
in London it had all the amenities a gym
a pool a Turkish bath a barbershop and
its own newspaper its modest by today's
cruise ship standards but keep in mind
that it's really impressive for the
early 1900's the wealthiest passenger
was John Jacob Astor the fourth who had
a net worth of around two billion
dollars by today's standards and his
wife came along for the ride
there was also industrialist Benjamin
Guggenheim the heiress Margaret Molly
Brown and Macy's department store
co-owner Isidor Straus and his wife Ida
they probably paid a pretty penny for
their trip given that the most expensive
tickets would be about ninety seven
thousand dollars today most of the
passengers were third-class though there
were around 700 of them and they paid
just $20 to make the transatlantic
crossing the ship was big beautiful and
innovative for its time however there
were some logistical mishaps that could
have been prevented the Titanic only
carried 20 lifeboats which altogether
could hold 1178 people that meant there
were seats available for only 1/3 of the
people on board to us today having
enough lifeboats for everyone is a no
brainer but the Titanic actually carried
four more boats than was required by law
back that perhaps if there had been
enough spots for everyone over 1500
people wouldn't have lost their lives
and all those people would have been
spared if the ship itself hadn't set
sail in the first place and that
actually was very close to becoming the
case you see on the day of departure the
Titanic came within two feet
of crashing into a nearby ship in the
dock and that was right in front of the
eyes of thousands of excited onlookers
who went to see the Titanic embark on
its maiden voyage headed for New York
from Southampton on April 10th 1912 with
2240 passengers and crew on board at
Captain Edward J Smith not missed the
nearby ship the whole trip would have
been canceled but in reality that
Titanic shouldn't have been on the water
in the first place experts have now
discovered that the ship's hull had been
weakened by a huge fire that broke out
during the construction process three
weeks before the date of departure and
White Star Line was fully aware of the
damage that had been done but they
decided to sweep it under the rug as
fate would have it the iceberg hit this
exact weakened spot tearing a huge hole
in the ship allowing the waters to flood
in and sending her to the depths of the
ocean the Titanic made two successful
stops in France and Ireland before
sailing off to New York on April 14th
the crew received reports of ice
sightings from other ships but the
Titanic's path was clear and the sea was
calm at 11:30 p.m. a lookout spotted a
100 foot tall iceberg straight ahead and
immediately warned the captain because
the ship was moving at top speed the
crew only had 37 seconds to try to avoid
a collision the Titanic's engines were
reversed and the ship was turned so that
it wouldn't hit the iceberg straight on
[Music]
it instead grazed the ice which
punctured a 300-foot gash in the side of
the ship's hull after the impact the
captain sent out distress signals which
were picked up by the Carpathia one of
Cunard ships the Carpathia immediately
sailed at full speed to the rescue while
trying to avoid icebergs itself the
Olympic was on its way to New York when
it got the Titanic's distress signal
it turned around at once and also sped
off to assist it's sinking sister
unfortunately it had to travel more than
500 miles to reach her having calculated
that the ship would only stay afloat for
an hour and a half the captain and chief
engineer rushed to order an evacuation
chaos ensued and it took them almost an
hour to lower the first lifeboat which
had only 28 people on board versus the
65 it had space for in the end the
Titanic actually stayed afloat for
almost three hours during that time
families were separated as women and
children were loaded on to the lifeboats
first as the law of the sea dictated
[Music]
according to eyewitnesses when the
Titanic started to sink Isidor Straus
told his wife to take a lifeboat but she
wouldn't leave his side Isadora himself
refused to board one well there were
still women and children on the ship Ida
gave her seat and her coat to her maid
and decided to stay with her husband the
director of White Star Line Joseph Ismay
stepped into a lifeboat as it was being
lowered an act he would forever be
shunned for by society Molly Brown did
make it into a lifeboat but Benjamin
Guggenheim went back to his room changed
into a formal outfit and got ready to
meet his fate the Titanic started
sinking from the front lifting the back
out of the water as it continued to sink
at this angle people were thrown into
the freezing 28 degree water once the
bow was submerged its stern or the back
part couldn't take the pressure and
broke off the ship finally sank at 2:20
a.m. on April 15 1912 on the lifeboats
Molly Brown tried to lift the spirits of
her fellow passengers and begged the
crewmen to go back to find more
survivors but they refused because of
her courage the press would dub her the
unsinkable
we brown the ships Baker Charles Jafar
swam in the water for two hours with
almost no effect to his health he said
he hadn't felt the cold because of all
the whiskey he drunk the survivors of
the Titanic were rescued by RMS
Carpathia at 4:00 a.m. and taken to New
York where they were greeted by 40,000
people the exact number of people who
lost their lives in the catastrophe has
never been agreed upon since the
original passenger and crew list had a
lot of misspellings and didn't include
members of the band most experts put it
at around one thousand five hundred and
three casualties some people actually
had tickets for the trip but didn't
board one of the most powerful bankers
of his time JP Morgan was supposed to be
on that ship but had to cancel at the
last minute
Milton s Hershey the founder of the
Chocolate Company also had to cancel
just imagine how history would have
changed had they decided to step foot on
the doomed ship and they're not the only
members of the just missed it Club there
are dozens the ship's wreckage still
lies 12,500 feet below the surface of
the North Atlantic 370 miles off the
coast of Newfoundland it seems the cards
just weren't in it for the unsinkable
titanic
do you know any interesting facts about
the Titanic or her passengers tell us in
the comments below give this video a
like if you learn something new and
always remember to stay on the bright
side of life
you